\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@c $Id$
@setfilename binkd-howto-en.info
@set BINKD binkd
@set VERSION 1.0
@set DESCR @value{BINKD} @value{VERSION} How-To
@settitle @value{DESCR}
@setchapternewpage odd
@documentlanguage en
@documentencoding ISO-8859-1
@documentdescription
@value{DESCR}
@end documentdescription
@c %**end of header

@titlepage
@title @value{DESCR}
@subtitle English revision
@author Stas Degteff  2:5080/102@fidonet, g@grumbler.org
@page
@c{empty page to get the page numbering right}
@end titlepage

@ifnotplaintext
@ifinfo
@dircategory Fidonet Software
@direntry
* @value{BINKD} How-To: (binkd-howto).               @value{DESCR}
@end direntry
@end ifinfo
@end ifnotplaintext

@iftex
@parindent=0pt
@end iftex
@iftex
@afourpaper
@end iftex

@ifinfo
@node Top, 01, (dir), (dir)
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
@node Top, 01, , (dir)
@end ifnotinfo

@top @value{DESCR}
@c Этот документ описывает типичные действия по настройке
@c @value{BINKD} @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* 01::                How Can BinkD Work via HTTP-proxy?
* 02::                How Can BinkD Work via SOCKS-proxy?
* 03::                How Can I Add BinkD To a Fidonet Box Working With a Modem?
* 04::                What binkd processes the descriptions an links and file of passwords.
@end menu

@node 01, 02, Top, Top
@chapter How Can BinkD Work via HTTP-proxy?

    It is not a rare case when users go out to the internet from their
corporate LAN exclusively via the proxy server based at the only computer
connected to the internet. Thus BinkD cannot make a direct connection to
the remote node and one must use the proxy server.  Proxy servers support
was included in versions 0.9.3.https, 0.9.4 and the later ones.

    One can use BinkD via a HTTP proxy only if CONNECT host 24554 command is
allowed in the proxy server or the CONNECT command is allowed for all
remote ports.  The command is usually used for the secure HTTP protocol (URLs
of the "HTTPS://..." type), it is also known as S-HTTP. Because of that
such a proxy is quite often referred as a HTTPS proxy.

    If BinkD reports of an authorization error then the necessary command is
prohibited in the proxy configuration or it is allowed for the port 443
only (that is inessential for us).

    Suppose the connected to the Internet computer has the IP address
192.168.0.1 in its LAN and the proxy server at the computer responds on
port 3128. Here is the line in BinkD configuration file necessary for
working via the HTTP proxy.

    1. A proxy server without user authorization (no login and password are
demanded):

@example
    proxy 192.168.0.1:3128
@end example

    2. A proxy server with user authorization (it is necessary to type login
and password, e.g. login "user", password "password"):

@example
    proxy 192.168.0.1:3128/user/password
@end example

    3. Microsoft proxy server with NTLM protocol of user authorization (one
must be inside a domain).  Suppose login is "user", password is "password",
the user computer is "host" and the domain name is "ntdomain":

@example
    proxy 192.168.0.1:3128/user/password/host/ntdomain
@end example

    If the proxy server administrator has allowed connection only to some
selected ports (usually to port 443) then BinkD reports "Connection
rejected by proxy". Here is an example:

@verbatim
      31 Mar 16:48:43 [59987] BEGIN, binkd/0.9.3/SOCKS/HTTPS -p BINKD.CFG
      31 Mar 16:48:43 [59987] clientmgr started
    + 31 Mar 16:48:43 [40423] call to 2:5000/44@fidonet
      31 Mar 16:48:43 [40423] trying 195.209.235.3, port 24554...
      31 Mar 16:48:43 [40423] connected to proxy.osu.ru:24554
      31 Mar 16:48:44 [40423] Connection rejected by proxy (HTTP/1.0 403 Forbidden)
    ? 31 Mar 16:48:44 [40423] unable to connect: {13} Permission denied
@end verbatim

    In such a case you may try to use http tunnelling for instance with the
help of httport (one can take it at http://www.htthost.com/).


@node 02, 03, 01, Top
@chapter How Can BinkD Work via SOCKS-proxy?

    It is not a rare case when users go out to the internet from their
corporate LAN exclusively via the proxy server based at the only computer
connected to the internet. Thus BinkD cannot make a direct connection to
the remote node and one must use the proxy server. Proxy servers support
was included in version 0.9.4 and the later ones.

    BinkD works with a SOCKS proxy version 4 and 5. The first one does not
demand an authorization (no login and password), the second one demands it
as a rule.

    Suppose the connected to the Internet computer has the IP address
192.168.0.1 in its LAN and the SOCKS server at the computer responds on
port 1080. Here is the line in BinkD configuration file necessary for
working via the SOCKS proxy.

    1. A SOCKS server without user authorization (no login and password are
demanded):

@example
    socks 192.168.0.1:1080
@end example

    2. A proxy server with user authorization (it is necessary to type login
and password, e.g. login "user", password "password"):

@example
    socks 192.168.0.1:1080/user/password
@end example

    If the proxy server administrator has allowed connection only to some
selected ports (usually to port 443) then BinkD reports "Connection
rejected by proxy". See example in a chapter @xref{01}.


@node 03, 04, 02, Top
@chapter How Can I Add BinkD To a Fidonet Box Working With a Modem?

    1. You must configure your modem mailer and tosser for BSO (binkley-style
outbound) mode so that all of them including BinkD would have the same
inbound directories (and also the same outbound directories). If your
mailer can work with AMA (arcmail-attach) only you have to change your
mailer.
    You also have to configure packing netmail to BSO. Usually you have to install
and configure a special program for that purpose: a simple netmail packer (@emph{bip}
or another one), or a more function rich netmail tracker (@emph{rntrack} or 
another one. Some mailers know themselves how to pack netmail to BSO.
    If you use fileboxes, then the path to fileboxes directory used by your modem
mailer must be set in the BinkD configuration file.

    Here is a working example of a configuration file for the joint work of @emph{BinkD}
and @emph{T-mail} (only the tokens necessary for the joint work of the mailers 
are shown):

@verbatim
    t-mail.ctl:
    Address             2:5080/102.1@fidonet
    Address             7:1500/102.1@fidonet
    BinkStyle_Pack_For  All
    Busy_Flags_Scan     Bink
    Busy_Flags_Create   Bink
    BinkOutbound        \ftn\outbound\fidonet
    Inbound             \ftn\inbound\
    InboundUnProtected  \ftn\inbound\uncheck\
    FileBoxes           \ftn\outbound\fboxes\
    Security            \ftn\t-mail\password.ctl

    binkd.cfg:
    address             2:5080/102.1@fidonet 7:1500/102.1@fidonet
    domain fidonet      \\ftn\\outbound\\fidonet 2
    inbound             \\ftn\\inbound
    inbound-nonsecure   \\ftn\\inbound\\uncheck
    filebox             \\ftn\\fboxes
    passwords           \\ftn\\t-mail\\password.ctl
@end verbatim


@node 04, , 03, Top
@chapter How Does BinkD Process the Link Descriptions and a Password File.

    The configuration file definitions with tokens @strong{node}, @strong{defnode} and also a password file
defined by @strong{passwords} token contain information about links.
    If several @strong{node} tokens are present in the configuration file or several
lines with passwords are present in the password file for the same link, then the
first entry is valid. All the rest entries are ignored.
    The @strong{node} lines, i.e. the definitions of nodes and @strong{defnode} entry, i.e. the default link are handled first. Then
the password file is read.
    Hence for explicitly defined links the @strong{node} lines give the actual
node parameters. In order to use passwords from the password file you have to
place a hyphen (or minus) character instead of a password in the @strong{node} line for the link.
    For the other links a password in the password file is valid.
    
@bye
